When deploying our application, our MEAN application as we built it in this course, we actually have
two options of deploying it.
Option number one is to deploy two separated apps and option
number two is to deploy one combined app.
Now what do I mean with that?
In option number one, two apps, we have an Angular app, the front-end and we have the Node rest API which
is Node Express and MongoDB basically or the access to MongoDB I should say. In the combined
app case, we have one app where we have that Node rest API which also happens to have a route which renders
or returns the Angular app,
please keep in mind we don't have that in our current project setup yet but I will show you how to
restructure the project to use this case.
Right now we have the two app cases, even though we're managing it in one project,
we have our back-end which runs on http://www.localhost:3000 and we have our front-end which runs on
http://www.localhost:4200
we had to start two processes to work on our app.
Now this actually is a setup you use quite a lot
when building modern single page applications because the Angular app is just a static app and therefore,
it requires just a static host.
With that, I mean a host which is capable of returning HTML, Javascript and CSS,
examples would be AWS S3 or Firebase hosting,
of course there are others too.
We just need such a static host because an Angular app executes no server side code,
it's not connected to the Node code.
We send our HTTP requests but that is done from within the browser,
so we only need to work with what the browser uses and that's HTML, Javascript and CSS,
hence a server capable of returning these files is all we need.
We need no PHP interpreter and we all need no server that can execute
Node. Now for the back-end for our Node rest API which we built, this differs. There we need a host which
is capable of running that NodeJS code, which is capable of executing it,
examples would be AWS EC2 or Elastic Beanstalk, Heroku and other hosting providers of course.
So we get these two separated apps which run on totally different domains and that already is the case
during development too, http://www/localhost:4200 for Angular and http://localhost:3000 for Node
sounds similar but actually, due to the different ports, these are really different domains,
they're not connected and we'll have the same set up when we deploy this.
Now we have one combined app, this differs. There we need a host which is capable of running NodeJS
because that's the smallest common denominator so to say and it will then also return the Angular files
whilst it's doing that,
every host can do that basically but NodeJS code,
that's not something every host can do. We'll need such a host for a combined app,
therefore we need the same options as on the left for NodeJS
.
And one other important difference to understand is if you have two separated apps, as we have it in our
course, then we absolutely need these cors headers we're setting on the Node/Express back-end and we're already
doing that because we have that set up.
If you have a combined app, you can actually omit them because then Angular will be hosted or will be
served by the same domain on which our back-end runs,
so requests sent to the back-end will target the same server and therefore no cors headers are required.
These are the options, I will walk you through both,
we will deploy the app in both ways.
Let's start with the two separated apps though because that is the set up we already have.